# learning-backend
This repository is for tracking my learning journey of backend development. Unfortunately, as the name suggests, it's backend, so there will be no pictures, as there is nothing to show other than code. So just go to files and see the code, instead of pictures of code, I am not putting those.

---
## Projects :
- [http-server-1](#http-server-1)
- [FileServer](#fileserver)
- [ToDoServer](#todoserver)

---
### [http-server-1](https://github.com/Sandstorm831/learning-backend/tree/main/http-server-1)
This is a very basic and very first implementation of a http server by me. Express library is used to build it. In it, the index.js file just basically return the sum of numbers over the server, while, in the kidney.js file, I have tried to use all the *POST*, *GET*, *PUT* and *DELETE* methods, trying to alter various properties. I think it's a good start, and it was fun too.

---
### [FileServer](https://github.com/Sandstorm831/learning-backend/tree/main/fileServer)
This is file Server, given a folder name, it can read and list all the files present in that folder, not iteratively, it can only read the files within that folder only. and given a file name, it can read the contents of that particular file. It's a handy server that let's me understand dynamic routing and also the *404* routing. I learned how middlewares are used in thse.

---
### [ToDoServer](https://github.com/Sandstorm831/learning-backend/tree/main/ToDoServer)
So, this server works a more realistically, still far from reality, but a good step towards it. In this I basically works on a **In Memory** object of todos, where each todos is a object in a array having a UID (Unique IDentifier) generated by random number generator and doing some operations on top of it to make it look super-random, apart from that, we have contents object in it, which include title string, description string and completed boolean. I try to do all kind of changes in it using the server, it was a good exercise to learn the basics, and a step closer to working with databases. All the changes will be disappeared after reload, but lemons in life are not so bad, when you have some water to make lemonade :P. 
